README.md, before:

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/release/RedisJSON/RedisJSON.svg)](https://github.com/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/releases/latest)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/tree/master)
[![macos](https://github.com/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/workflows/macos/badge.svg)](https://github.com/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/actions?query=workflow%3Amacos)
[![Docker Cloud Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/cloud/build/redislabs/rejson.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/redislabs/rejson/builds/)
[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/RedisJSON/RedisJSON.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/alerts/)
[![Forum](https://img.shields.io/badge/Forum-RedisJSON-blue)](https://forum.redislabs.com/c/modules/redisjson)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/697882427875393627?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/QUkjSsk)

# RedisJSON

RedisJSON is a [Redis](https://redis.io/) module that implements [ECMA-404 The JSON Data Interchange Standard](https://json.org/) as a native data type. It allows storing, updating and fetching JSON values from Redis keys (documents).

## Primary features:

* Full support of the JSON standard
* [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) syntax for selecting elements inside documents
* Documents are stored as binary data in a tree structure, allowing fast access to sub-elements
* Typed atomic operations for all JSON values types
* Secondary index support based on [RediSearch](https://redisearch.io)

## Quick start

```
docker run -p 6379:6379 --name redis-redisjson redislabs/rejson:latest
```

## Documentation

Read the docs at http://redisjson.io

## Build

Make sure you have Rust installed:
https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install

Then, build as usual:

```bash
cargo build --release
```

## Run

### Linux

```
redis-server --loadmodule ./target/release/librejson.so
```

### Mac OS

```
redis-server --loadmodule ./target/release/librejson.dylib
```

## Client libraries

Some languages have client libraries that provide support for RedisJSON's commands:

| Project | Language | License | Author | Stars | Package |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | ------ | ----- | --- |
| [iorejson][iorejson-url] | Node.js | MIT | [Evan Huang @evanhuang8][iorejson-author] | [![iorejson-stars]][iorejson-url] | [npm][iorejson-package] |
| [node_redis-rejson][node_redis-rejson-url] | Node.js | MIT | [Kyle Davis @stockholmux][node_redis-rejson-author] | [![node_redis-rejson-stars]][node_redis-rejson-url] | [npm][node_redis-rejson-package]  |
| [redis-modules-sdk][redis-modules-sdk-url] | Node.js | BSD-3-Clause | [Dani Tseitlin @danitseitlin][redis-modules-sdk-author] | [![redis-modules-sdk-stars]][redis-modules-sdk-url] | [npm][redis-modules-sdk-package] |
| [JRedisJSON][JRedisJSON-url] | Java | BSD-2-Clause | [Redis Labs][JRedisJSON-author] | [![JRedisJSON-stars]][JRedisJSON-url] | [maven][JRedisJSON-package] |
| [redisjson-py][rejson-py-url]  | Python | BSD-2-Clause | [Redis Labs][rejson-py-author] | [![rejson-py-stars]][rejson-py-url] | [pypi][rejson-py-package] |
| [go-rejson][go-rejson-url] | Go | MIT | [Nitish Malhotra @nitishm][go-rejson-author] | [![go-rejson-stars]][go-rejson-url] | |
| [rejonson][rejonson-url] | Go | Apache-2.0 | [Daniel Krom @KromDaniel][rejonson-author] | [![rejonson-stars]][rejonson-url] | |
| [NReJSON][NReJSON-url]  | .NET | MIT/Apache-2.0 | [Tommy Hanks @tombatron][NReJSON-author] | [![NReJSON-stars]][NReJSON-url] | [nuget][NReJSON-package] |
| [phpredis-json][phpredis-json-url]  | PHP | MIT | [Rafa Campoy @averias][phpredis-json-author] | [![phpredis-json-stars]][phpredis-json-url] | [composer][phpredis-json-package] |
| [redislabs-rejson][redislabs-rejson-url]  | PHP | MIT | [Mehmet Korkmaz @mkorkmaz][redislabs-rejson-author] | [![redislabs-rejson-stars]][redislabs-rejson-url] | [composer][redislabs-rejson-package] |
| [rejson-rb][rejson-rb-url]  | Ruby | MIT | [Pavan Vachhani @vachhanihpavan][rejson-rb-author] | [![rejson-rb-stars]][rejson-rb-url] | [rubygems][rejson-rb-package]|

[iorejson-author]: https://github.com/evanhuang8
[iorejson-url]: https://github.com/evanhuang8/iorejson
[iorejson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/iorejson
[iorejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/evanhuang8/iorejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[node_redis-rejson-author]: https://github.com/stockholmux
[node_redis-rejson-url]: https://github.com/stockholmux/node_redis-rejson
[node_redis-rejson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis-rejson
[node_redis-rejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/stockholmux/node_redis-rejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[redis-modules-sdk-author]: https://github.com/danitseitlin/
[redis-modules-sdk-url]: https://github.com/danitseitlin/redis-modules-sdk
[redis-modules-sdk-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis-modules-sdk
[redis-modules-sdk-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/danitseitlin/redis-modules-sdk.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[JRedisJSON-author]: https://redislabs.com
[JRedisJSON-url]: https://github.com/RedisJSON/JRedisJSON
[JRedisJSON-package]: https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.redislabs/jrejson/1.2.0/jar
[JRedisJSON-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/RedisJSON/JRedisJSON.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[rejson-py-author]: https://redislabs.com
[rejson-py-url]: https://github.com/RedisJSON/redisjson-py
[rejson-py-package]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rejson
[rejson-py-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/RedisJSON/redisjson-py.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[go-rejson-author]: https://github.com/nitishm
[go-rejson-url]: https://github.com/nitishm/go-rejson/
[go-rejson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/iorejson
[go-rejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/nitishm/go-rejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[rejonson-author]: https://github.com/KromDaniel
[rejonson-url]: https://github.com/KromDaniel/rejonson
[rejonson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/iorejson
[rejonson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/KromDaniel/rejonson?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[NReJSON-author]: https://github.com/tombatron
[NReJSON-url]: https://github.com/tombatron/NReJSON
[NReJSON-package]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/NReJSON/
[NReJSON-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tombatron/NReJSON.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[phpredis-json-author]: https://github.com/averias
[phpredis-json-url]: https://github.com/averias/phpredis-json
[phpredis-json-package]: https://packagist.org/packages/averias/phpredis-json
[phpredis-json-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/averias/phpredis-json.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[redislabs-rejson-author]: https://github.com/mkorkmaz
[redislabs-rejson-url]: https://github.com/mkorkmaz/redislabs-rejson
[redislabs-rejson-package]: https://packagist.org/packages/mkorkmaz/redislabs-rejson
[redislabs-rejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mkorkmaz/redislabs-rejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[rejson-rb-author]: https://github.com/vachhanihpavan
[rejson-rb-url]: https://github.com/vachhanihpavan/rejson-rb
[rejson-rb-package]: https://rubygems.org/gems/rejson-rb
[rejson-rb-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vachhanihpavan/rejson-rb.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000


## Acknowledgements

RedisJSON is developed with <3 at [Redis Labs](https://redislabs.com).

RedisJSON is made possible only because of the existance of this amazing open source project:

* [redis](https://github.com/antirez/redis)

## License

Redis Source Available License Agreement - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

Commit message:

[feature-search-json] Sync with master (2) (#344)
* Update to Redis 6.2.2 (#332)

* Fix json.arrappend performance (#324)

* improve arr_pop, arr_insert & arr_trim performance 
* refactor do_json_* functions

* normalize index for backward (#327)

* normalize index for backward
* adpat for full backward with 1.0.x

* fix #318 (#333)

* CircleCI: macOS and benchmark fixes (#337)

* Update config.yml (#338)

* Add JSON.CLEAR command (#306)

* Restore optional path (default is $) for JSON.DEL

* Add JSON.CLEAR

* Handle JSON.CLEAR with $ path

* Add JSON.CLEAR - Fix failure in test:testSetInvalidPathShouldFail

* Idiomatic fixes per Gavrie review

Co-authored-by: Guy Korland <gkorland@gmail.com>

* Update RS_VERSIONS

last promoted builds

* Document flags for running tests

* fix arr_pop backward to 1.0 (#345)

* JSON.INSERTARR backward compatability for 1.0 (#343)

* Fix JSON.INSERTARR backward compatibility with 1.0.x
* Update test.py

* Fix build error
(use of undeclared crate or module `rawmod`)

* Fix format

Co-authored-by: Guy Korland <gkorland@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Omer Shadmi <76992134+oshadmi@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: tomerhekredis <72793005+tomerhekredis@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Gavrie Philipson <gavrie@philipson.co.il>
Co-authored-by: oshadmi <omer.shadmi@redislabs.com>

README.md, after:

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/release/RedisJSON/RedisJSON.svg)](https://github.com/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/releases/latest)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/tree/master)
[![macos](https://github.com/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/workflows/macos/badge.svg)](https://github.com/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/actions?query=workflow%3Amacos)
[![Docker Cloud Build Status](https://img.shields.io/docker/cloud/build/redislabs/rejson.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/redislabs/rejson/builds/)
[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/RedisJSON/RedisJSON.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/RedisJSON/RedisJSON/alerts/)
[![Forum](https://img.shields.io/badge/Forum-RedisJSON-blue)](https://forum.redislabs.com/c/modules/redisjson)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/697882427875393627?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/QUkjSsk)

# RedisJSON

RedisJSON is a [Redis](https://redis.io/) module that implements [ECMA-404 The JSON Data Interchange Standard](https://json.org/) as a native data type. It allows storing, updating and fetching JSON values from Redis keys (documents).

## Primary features:

* Full support of the JSON standard
* [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) syntax for selecting elements inside documents
* Documents are stored as binary data in a tree structure, allowing fast access to sub-elements
* Typed atomic operations for all JSON values types
* Secondary index support based on [RediSearch](https://redisearch.io)

## Quick start

```
docker run -p 6379:6379 --name redis-redisjson redislabs/rejson:latest
```

## Documentation

Read the docs at http://redisjson.io

## Build

Make sure you have Rust installed:
https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install

Then, build as usual:

```bash
cargo build --release
```

When running the tests, you need to explicitly specify the `test` feature to disable use of the Redis memory allocator when testing:

```bash
cargo test --features test
```

If you forget to do this, you'll see an error mentioning `signal: 4, SIGILL: illegal instruction`.

## Run

### Linux

```
redis-server --loadmodule ./target/release/librejson.so
```

### Mac OS

```
redis-server --loadmodule ./target/release/librejson.dylib
```

## Client libraries

Some languages have client libraries that provide support for RedisJSON's commands:

| Project | Language | License | Author | Stars | Package |
| ------- | -------- | ------- | ------ | ----- | --- |
| [iorejson][iorejson-url] | Node.js | MIT | [Evan Huang @evanhuang8][iorejson-author] | [![iorejson-stars]][iorejson-url] | [npm][iorejson-package] |
| [node_redis-rejson][node_redis-rejson-url] | Node.js | MIT | [Kyle Davis @stockholmux][node_redis-rejson-author] | [![node_redis-rejson-stars]][node_redis-rejson-url] | [npm][node_redis-rejson-package]  |
| [redis-modules-sdk][redis-modules-sdk-url] | Node.js | BSD-3-Clause | [Dani Tseitlin @danitseitlin][redis-modules-sdk-author] | [![redis-modules-sdk-stars]][redis-modules-sdk-url] | [npm][redis-modules-sdk-package] |
| [JRedisJSON][JRedisJSON-url] | Java | BSD-2-Clause | [Redis Labs][JRedisJSON-author] | [![JRedisJSON-stars]][JRedisJSON-url] | [maven][JRedisJSON-package] |
| [redisjson-py][rejson-py-url]  | Python | BSD-2-Clause | [Redis Labs][rejson-py-author] | [![rejson-py-stars]][rejson-py-url] | [pypi][rejson-py-package] |
| [go-rejson][go-rejson-url] | Go | MIT | [Nitish Malhotra @nitishm][go-rejson-author] | [![go-rejson-stars]][go-rejson-url] | |
| [rejonson][rejonson-url] | Go | Apache-2.0 | [Daniel Krom @KromDaniel][rejonson-author] | [![rejonson-stars]][rejonson-url] | |
| [NReJSON][NReJSON-url]  | .NET | MIT/Apache-2.0 | [Tommy Hanks @tombatron][NReJSON-author] | [![NReJSON-stars]][NReJSON-url] | [nuget][NReJSON-package] |
| [phpredis-json][phpredis-json-url]  | PHP | MIT | [Rafa Campoy @averias][phpredis-json-author] | [![phpredis-json-stars]][phpredis-json-url] | [composer][phpredis-json-package] |
| [redislabs-rejson][redislabs-rejson-url]  | PHP | MIT | [Mehmet Korkmaz @mkorkmaz][redislabs-rejson-author] | [![redislabs-rejson-stars]][redislabs-rejson-url] | [composer][redislabs-rejson-package] |
| [rejson-rb][rejson-rb-url]  | Ruby | MIT | [Pavan Vachhani @vachhanihpavan][rejson-rb-author] | [![rejson-rb-stars]][rejson-rb-url] | [rubygems][rejson-rb-package]|

[iorejson-author]: https://github.com/evanhuang8
[iorejson-url]: https://github.com/evanhuang8/iorejson
[iorejson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/iorejson
[iorejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/evanhuang8/iorejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[node_redis-rejson-author]: https://github.com/stockholmux
[node_redis-rejson-url]: https://github.com/stockholmux/node_redis-rejson
[node_redis-rejson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis-rejson
[node_redis-rejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/stockholmux/node_redis-rejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[redis-modules-sdk-author]: https://github.com/danitseitlin/
[redis-modules-sdk-url]: https://github.com/danitseitlin/redis-modules-sdk
[redis-modules-sdk-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis-modules-sdk
[redis-modules-sdk-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/danitseitlin/redis-modules-sdk.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[JRedisJSON-author]: https://redislabs.com
[JRedisJSON-url]: https://github.com/RedisJSON/JRedisJSON
[JRedisJSON-package]: https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.redislabs/jrejson/1.2.0/jar
[JRedisJSON-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/RedisJSON/JRedisJSON.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[rejson-py-author]: https://redislabs.com
[rejson-py-url]: https://github.com/RedisJSON/redisjson-py
[rejson-py-package]: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rejson
[rejson-py-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/RedisJSON/redisjson-py.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[go-rejson-author]: https://github.com/nitishm
[go-rejson-url]: https://github.com/nitishm/go-rejson/
[go-rejson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/iorejson
[go-rejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/nitishm/go-rejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[rejonson-author]: https://github.com/KromDaniel
[rejonson-url]: https://github.com/KromDaniel/rejonson
[rejonson-package]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/iorejson
[rejonson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/KromDaniel/rejonson?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[NReJSON-author]: https://github.com/tombatron
[NReJSON-url]: https://github.com/tombatron/NReJSON
[NReJSON-package]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/NReJSON/
[NReJSON-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tombatron/NReJSON.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[phpredis-json-author]: https://github.com/averias
[phpredis-json-url]: https://github.com/averias/phpredis-json
[phpredis-json-package]: https://packagist.org/packages/averias/phpredis-json
[phpredis-json-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/averias/phpredis-json.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[redislabs-rejson-author]: https://github.com/mkorkmaz
[redislabs-rejson-url]: https://github.com/mkorkmaz/redislabs-rejson
[redislabs-rejson-package]: https://packagist.org/packages/mkorkmaz/redislabs-rejson
[redislabs-rejson-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/mkorkmaz/redislabs-rejson.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000

[rejson-rb-author]: https://github.com/vachhanihpavan
[rejson-rb-url]: https://github.com/vachhanihpavan/rejson-rb
[rejson-rb-package]: https://rubygems.org/gems/rejson-rb
[rejson-rb-stars]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/vachhanihpavan/rejson-rb.svg?style=social&amp;label=Star&amp;maxAge=2592000


## Acknowledgements

RedisJSON is developed with <3 at [Redis Labs](https://redislabs.com).

RedisJSON is made possible only because of the existance of this amazing open source project:

* [redis](https://github.com/antirez/redis)

## License

Redis Source Available License Agreement - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)
