docs/path.md, before:

# RedisJSON Path

Since there does not exist a standard for path syntax, RedisJSON implements its own. RedisJSON's syntax is a subset of common best practices and resembles [JSONPath](http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) not by accident.

Paths always begin at the root of a RedisJSON value. The root is denoted by the period character (`.`). For paths referencing the root's children, prefixing the path with the root is optional.

Dotted- and square-bracketed, single-or-double-quoted-child notation are both supported for object keys, so the following paths all refer to _bar_, child of _foo_ under the root:

*   `.foo.bar`
*   `foo["bar"]`
*   `['foo']["bar"]`

Array elements are accessed by their index enclosed by a pair of square brackets. The index is 0-based, with 0 being the first element of the array, 1 being the next element and so on. These offsets can also be negative numbers, indicating indices starting at the end of the array. For example, -1 is the last element in the array, -2 the penultimate, and so on.

## A note about JSON key names and path compatibility

By definition, a JSON key can be any valid JSON String. Paths, on the other hand, are traditionally based on JavaScript's (and in Java in turn) variable naming conventions. Therefore, while it is possible to have RedisJSON store objects containing arbitrary key names, accessing these keys via a path will only be possible if they respect these naming syntax rules:

1.  Names must begin with a letter, a dollar (`$`) or an underscore (`_`) character
2.  Names can contain letters, digits, dollar signs and underscores
3.  Names are case-sensitive

## Time complexity of path evaluation

The complexity of searching (navigating to) an element in the path is made of:

1. Child level - every level along the path adds an additional search
2. Key search - O(N)<sup>&#8224;</sup>, where N is the number of keys in the parent object
3. Array search - O(1)

This means that the overall time complexity of searching a path is _O(N*M)_, where N is the depth and M is the number of parent object keys.

<sup>&#8224;</sup> while this is acceptable for objects where N is small, access can be optimized for larger objects, and this is planned for a future version.

Commit message:

Document new path, JSON.GET and JSON.MGET

docs/path.md, after:

# RedisJSON Path

Since there does not exist a standard for path syntax, RedisJSON implements its own. RedisJSON's syntax is a subset of common best practices and resembles [JSONPath](http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) not by accident.

There is currently two concurrent implementations. One is a legacy from the first version of RedisJSON. Describe below as the `legacy path syntax`.

RedisJSON decide which implementation to used depending on the first character of the path query. If the query starts with the character `$` it is considered as a JSONPath query. Otherwise is is interpreted as a legacy path syntax.

## JSONPath support (RedisJSON v2)

RedisJSON 2.0 introduces the support of [JSONPath](http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/). It follows the syntax described by Goessner in his article.

JSONPath query can resolve to several location in the JSON documents. In this case, the JSON commands are applying the operation to every possible location. This is a major improvement over the legacy support, which was operating only on the first path.

Notice that the structure of the command response is most of the time different when using JSONPath. This two behavior are described in the [Commands](/commands) page.

## Legacy Path syntax (RedisJSON v1)

The first version of RedisJSON came with the following implementation. It is still supported in RedisJSON v2.

Paths always begin at the root of a RedisJSON value. The root is denoted by the period character (`.`). For paths referencing the root's children, prefixing the path with the root is optional.

Dotted- and square-bracketed, single-or-double-quoted-child notation are both supported for object keys, so the following paths all refer to _bar_, child of _foo_ under the root:

*   `.foo.bar`
*   `foo["bar"]`
*   `['foo']["bar"]`

Array elements are accessed by their index enclosed by a pair of square brackets. The index is 0-based, with 0 being the first element of the array, 1 being the next element and so on. These offsets can also be negative numbers, indicating indices starting at the end of the array. For example, -1 is the last element in the array, -2 the penultimate, and so on.

## A note about JSON key names and path compatibility

By definition, a JSON key can be any valid JSON String. Paths, on the other hand, are traditionally based on JavaScript's (and in Java in turn) variable naming conventions. Therefore, while it is possible to have RedisJSON store objects containing arbitrary key names, accessing these keys via a path will only be possible if they respect these naming syntax rules:

1.  Names must begin with a letter, a dollar (`$`) or an underscore (`_`) character
2.  Names can contain letters, digits, dollar signs and underscores
3.  Names are case-sensitive

## Time complexity of path evaluation

The complexity of searching (navigating to) an element in the path is made of:

1. Child level - every level along the path adds an additional search
2. Key search - O(N)<sup>&#8224;</sup>, where N is the number of keys in the parent object
3. Array search - O(1)

This means that the overall time complexity of searching a path is _O(N*M)_, where N is the depth and M is the number of parent object keys.

<sup>&#8224;</sup> while this is acceptable for objects where N is small, access can be optimized for larger objects, and this is planned for a future version.
